[Music]
SolidWorks is the world leader in 3d
solid modeling solids to the history and
feature based parametric modeling
program the software uses a simple set
of tools and commands to assist you in
designing the next great product let's
first go over opening the software and
then we'll tour the interface on your
desktop you should see an icon that says
solvers 2014 and can either have the 64
bit or the 32 bit depending on the
software you have installed if you don't
see it on the desktop you can go to the
Start menu and I have it as a first icon
here just go ahead and click on that and
they should launch the program to get
started first I'm gonna come up here to
the SolidWorks logo and directly next to
that is a little arrow if I click on
that arrow notice there's a little file
menu that pops up and if I go to the
very end of that if I click on the
pushpin that will stay up I like to
sometimes get into these file meetings
actually open files from there so it
makes it really easy to get started the
easiest way is actually to click on this
blank sheet of paper called new when
this dialog box opens up notice we've
got three options we got a part an
assembler your drawing and those are
three different modes the SolidWorks can
actually operate in most the time you're
going to start with parts you take those
parts are going to assemble those
together and then we can make drawings
of either parts or assemblies let's
choose part click on OK and launch the
program now we have the full interface
available on the top you can see we have
what's called a ribbon bar and the
ribbon bar has all these different tabs
you can click through the different tabs
to get the various tools that are
available in different modes we're
primarily going to be using features and
sketch directly below that is the
feature manager the feature manager is
going to control all the different
features we go through when we build and
assemble your part and they'll build one
on top of each other directly in this
area here also in these tabs which are
not going to use quite as much is the
property manager configuration manager
dimension expert and the display manager
we're really not going to use those too
much but I just want to point out what
they are and where they are let's go
back to the feature manager which we're
going to be using all the time over here
on the right you can see we have what's
called the flyout bars and if I click on
one of them notice this whole little
drawer pops up here and has various
tools available to us or here I can open
a new document I can view tutorials I
can even connect with local user groups
there's a lot of nice resources that are
available from
tab directly below that is the design
library and this is where I can store
commonly use parts or assemblies or
drawings or annotations or just about
anything in the library and I can drag
and drop those into my designs as needed
below that is the standard File Explorer
and again I can open recent documents or
open things maybe on the desktop and
I've got a couple other options here
I've got the appearances tab and I have
the custom properties tab and we'll be
getting into those later but for right
now I just wanted to point out where
they're located if you come down to the
lower right-hand corner of the screen
you can see an IPS icon down here if you
click on that you notice it shows
inch-pounds second and these are your
basic units going to be using in the
software the most common or millimeters
or inches so you can either switch
between metric or imperial units in this
course here we're primarily going to be
using inches but just in case you're
working on a design in the future it
happens to be in millimeters you can
quickly switch between the two if you
need a little more intricate control
over the units and the sizes and things
like that you can click on the edit
document units and you can really change
anything you want there and last thing I
want to point out is these little icons
here at the top of the screen so if you
have a model open it allows you to zoom
to fit this one allows you to zoom to
area you can look at your previous view
you can section the model you can look
at all the various and view orientations
you can change the way you look at a
model from shaded with edges all the way
to wireframe you can change the
appearances you can change the
backgrounds and you can change the way
the graphics are presented on the screen
a lot of these don't really make a lot
of sense quite yet because we don't have
a model to actually look at but I just
want to point out again where these are
located on the screen and how we can
find them in the future you should now
understand where most of the tools and
options are located in the software and
how to navigate in the 3d environment a
membership to linda.com unlocks this
entire course and hundreds of others
visit linda.com to learn more